= acts_as_follower

acts_as_follower is a plugin to allow any model to follow any other model.  This is accomplished through a double polymorphic relationship on the Follow model.  There is also built in support for blocking/un-blocking follow records.

Main uses would be for Users to follow other Users or for Users to follow Books, etc...

(Basically, to develop the type of follow system that GitHub has)


== Installation

=== The master branch supports rails 2.3.x

Run the following command:
  script/plugin install git://github.com/tcocca/acts_as_follower.git

Run the generator:
  script/generate acts_as_follower

This will generate a migration file as well as a model called Follow.

=== Rails 3 support

Rails 3 is supported in the following branch: http://github.com/tcocca/acts_as_follower/tree/rails3

Run the following command:
  rails plugin install git://github.com/tcocca/acts_as_follower.git -r rails3

Run the generator:
  rails generate acts_as_follower

Rails 3 testing is encouraged, please do your part and report any issues on the github issue tracker if you find any bugs.
This branch is not running in a production site yet (that I know of), if you are running it in production please let me know!

== Usage

=== Setup

Make your model(s) that you want to allow to be followed acts_as_followable, just add the mixin:
  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    ...
    acts_as_followable
    ...
  end

  class Book < ActiveRecord::Base
    ...
    acts_as_followable
    ...
  end

Make your model(s) that can follow other models acts_as_follower
  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    ...
    acts_as_follower
    ...
  end

---

=== acts_as_follower methods

To have an object start following another use the following:
  book = Book.find(1)
  user = User.find(1)
  user.follow(book) # Creates a record for the user as the follower and the book as the followable

To stop following an object use the following
  user.stop_following(book) # Deletes that record in the Follow table

You can check to see if an object that acts_as_follower is following another object through the following:
  user.following?(book) # Returns true or false

To get the total number (count) of follows for a user use the following on a model that acts_as_follower
  user.follow_count # Returns and integer

To get follow records that have not been blocked use the following
  user.all_follows # returns an array of Follow records

To get all of the records that an object is following that have not been blocked use the following
  user.all_following
  # Returns an array of every followed object for the user, this can be a collection of different object types, eg: User, Book

To get all Follow records by a certain type use the following
  user.follows_by_type('Book') # returns an array of Follow objects where the followable_type is 'Book'

To get all followed objects by a certain type use the following.
  user.following_by_type('Book') # Returns an array of all followed objects for user where followable_type is 'Book', this can be a collection of different object types, eg: User, Book

There is also a method_missing to accomplish the exact same thing a following_by_type('Book') to make you life easier
  user.following_users # exact same results as user.following_by_type('User')

To get the count of all Follow records by a certain type use the following
  user.following_by_type_count('Book') # Returns the sql count of the number of followed books by that user

There is also a method_missing to get the count by type
  user.following_books_count # Calls the user.following_by_type_count('Book') method

The following methods take an optional hash parameter of ActiveRecord options (:limit, :order, etc...)
  follows_by_type, all_follows, all_following, following_by_type
---

=== acts_as_followable methods

To get all the followers of a model that acts_as_followable
  book.followers  # Returns an array of all the followers for that book, a collection of different object types (eg. type User or type Book)

To get just the number of follows use
  book.followers_count

To get the followers of a certain type, eg: all followers of type 'User'
  book.followers_by_type('User') # Returns an array of the user followers

There is also a method_missing for this to make it easier:
  book.user_followers # Calls followers_by_type('User')

To get just the sql count of the number of followers of a certain type use the following
  book.followers_by_type_count('User') # Return the count on the number of followers of type 'User'

Again, there is a method_missing for this method as well
  book.count_user_followers # Calls followers_by_type_count('User')

To see is a model that acts_as_followable is followed by a model that acts_as_follower use the following
  book.followed_by?(user)

  # Returns true if the current instance is followed by the passed record
  # Returns false if the current instance is blocked by the passed record or no follow is found

To block a follower call the following
  book.block(user)
  # Blocks the user from appearing in the followers list, and blocks the book from appearing in the user.all_follows or user.all_following lists

To unblock is just as simple
  book.unblock(user)

To get all blocked records
  book.blocks # Returns an array of blocked follower records (only unblocked) (eg. type User or type Book)

If you only need the number of blocks use the count method provided
  book.blocked_followers_count

Unblocking deletes all records of that follow, instead of just the :blocked attribute => false the follow is deleted.  So, a user would need to try and follow the book again.
I would like to hear thoughts on this, I may change this to make the follow as :blocked => false instead of deleting the record.

The following methods take an optional hash parameter of ActiveRecord options (:limit, :order, etc...)
  followers_by_type, followers, blocks
---

=== Follow Model

The Follow model has a set of named_scope's.  In case you want to interface directly with the Follow model you can use them.
  Follow.unblocked # returns all "unblocked" follow records

  Follow.blocked # returns all "blocked" follow records

  Follow.descending # returns all records in a descending order based on created_at datetime

This method pulls all records created after a certain date.  The default is 2 weeks but it takes an optional parameter.
  Follow.recent
  Follow.recent(4.weeks.ago)

Follow.for_follower is a named_scope that is mainly there to reduce code in the modules but it could be used directly.  It takes an object and will return all Follow records where the follower is the record passed in.  Note that this will return all blocked and unblocked records.
  Follow.for_follower(user)
If you don't need the blocked records just use the methods provided for this:
  user.all_follows
  # or
  user.all_following

Follow.for_followable acts the same as its counterpart (for_follower).  It is mainly there to reduce duplication, however it can be used directly.  It takes an object that is the followed object and return all Follow records where that record is the followable. Again, this returns all blocked and unblocked records.
  Follow.for_followable(book)
Again, if you don't need the blocked records use the method provided for this:
  book.followers
If you need blocked records only
  book.blocks


== Comments/Requests

If anyone has comments or questions please let me know (tom dot cocca at gmail dot com).
If you have updates or patches or want to contribute I would love to see what you have or want to add.


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally (acts_as_follower uses Shoulda and Factory Girl)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.


== Contributers

Thanks to everyone for their interest and time in committing to making this plugin better.

* dougal (Douglas F Shearer) - http://github.com/dougal
* jdg (Jonathan George) - http://github.com/jdg
* m3talsmith (Michael Christenson II) - http://github.com/m3talsmith
* joergbattermann (Jörg Battermann) - http://github.com/joergbattermann
* TomK32 (Thomas R. Koll) - http://github.com/TomK32
* drcapulet (Alex Coomans) - http://github.com/drcapulet
* jhchabran (Jean Hadrien Chabran) - http://github.com/jhchabran
* arthurgeek (Arthur Zapparoli) - http://github.com/arthurgeek

Please let me know if I missed you.


== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2008 - 2010 ( tom dot cocca at gmail dot com ), released under the MIT license.
